---
title: My understanding of CORS
date: 2024-06-06 04:13
categories: [zettelkasten]
tags: [research]
---

CORS is used by a web application to talk to other resources from a different origin, i.e, if you allow for example `example.com` for CORS resource sharing, then that website can talk to resources from your websites. It gets dangers when there are some sensitive information being leaked in teh response of a request. The sensitive informations can be API keys, CSRF token and many other things.

If your input on the `origin` header is returned back in the request header of the application, then you access the resource of the web application.

It is even more dangerous if the header `access-control-allow-credentials` is set to true. That means anything the user have access to as authenticated user, that server is also able to do that.

## Some exploitable scenarios

- `origin` header is reflected back with the supplied user input.
  - `Access-control-allow-credentials: true` Then you have really good lead
  - `Access-control-allow-credentials: false` Then you are not able to access responses that were from the user's authenticated request.

- The web application is only responding for that of the target's subdomain
  - `access-control-allow-credentials: true` It's relatively safe but if you have an XSS on one of the targets subdomains, then you can use it to your advantage
  - `access-control-allow-credentials: false` Again attackers in this case are not able to access the authenticated data.

- The web application uses wild-card for whitelist (In this case the attacker can be able to craft a domain that will bypass the checklist)
  - Same as the first one.

- Inputting the null word in the origin header
  - same technique

Related:
- https://www.packetlabs.net/posts/cross-origin-resource-sharing-cors/

