---
title: More about git
date: 2024-06-06 03:49
categories: [zettelkasten]
tags: [git]
---

Recently looked at about git branch and git checkout.

## About git branch

This is a feature that allows you to branch from the main branch that you're working on so that you can make different changes to it without affecting the main working branch/directory. Used in cases like adding new features, fixing bugs.

Some useful git commands are:
- `git branch`: To list the available branches. (same as `git branch --list`)
- `git branch <name>`: To create a new branch.
- `git branch -D <name>`: To delete the provided branch. (This will not check if the branch is merged with the main one. If instead we use `git branch -d <name>` it will give us a warning that the branch is not fully merged yet.)
- `git branch -m <name>`: To rename the current branch to the name provided.
- `git branch -a`: To list all remote branches.
- `git merge <name-of-the-branch>`: This will merge the specified branch with whatever branch you're on. (If there are any conflicts resolve that and then you can continue the merging using the command `git merge --continue`)

## About git checkout

This feature allows us to switch between different branches or commit states/histories.

Some useful commands:
- `git checkout <branch-name>`: This will switch to the specified branch name.
- `git checkout <commit-hash>`: This will match the current directory with the state of the repository at that time of the hash. (This will not switch to any branch rather it will create something called `HEAD detached at <beginning-of-the-hash>`)
- `git checkout -b <name>`: This will create and switch to the new branch from the state of what you're on. (**Special Tip:** Useful when you are for example in a detached state but want to keep the files, then you'll use the above command.)
- `git checkout --patch <from-branch-name> -- FILE`: This will help us merge only the file that we want into our current branch. Or we can use `git checkout --merge <from-branch-name> -- FILE` to automatically merge without prompt popping up.

