---
title: About amazon cognito 
date: 2024-06-06 03:46
categories: [zettelkasten]
tags: [takeaway]
---

## What is IAM (Identity and access management)

This is provided by amazon web services. And as its name suggests, it is used to manage users and their level of access within the aws eco-system. They do this by using their access key and secret key which is given to them when their account is created.

## What are federal identities?

The concept is simple. They are useful so as to allow a user to generate a temporary, limited priviliged account to access the amazon web services. The users authenticate themselves via 3rd party like Google, Facebook, Github...

In general, they allow the user to authenticate himself via 3rd party and access the AWS.

## How does amazon cognito work?

First of all, there are two main functionalities, `user pool` and `identity pool`.
**User pool:** Pool of users, i.e, storage of users. They also allow sign-in/out functionality.
**Identity pool:** The service that allows users to access the aws eco-system.

{{picture}} From the blog.

## Misconfigrations

Some web apps put their PoolId hardcoded in the source code of their web app. Some also use it to make GET or POST request using the Id. Some also respond with the Id in some response.

Once the Id is exposed we can use it to generate an unauthenticated role account. (We are sending the Id to the Identity pool to give us a temporary aws account). And in return, the Identity pool will give use `access key`, `secret key`, `session token`, `identity id`.

After that we can use the script mentioned in the blog to know what permissions we have with the account.


Related:
- [Blog link](https://blog.appsecco.com/exploiting-weak-configurations-in-amazon-cognito-in-aws-471ce761963)
